# Artist Biography Draft

Juan Diego Perez la Cruz is a photographer, artist, architect, and educator.  He was born in 198, in Maracaibo, Venezuela – near Columbia. He was the kid, who in middle and high school, was always carrying a sketchbook. His artistic strengths and interests come from his unique background. 

Juan Diego was originally an architect. He got his bachelors in architecture at Zulia University (2003- 2008), then worked in furniture design. However, he wanted to gain experience in other areas of art, so he enrolled in a technical program in the the Julio Arraga Art School that taught drawing, photography, and experimental painting. Immediately after graduating from the program, he embarked on a series of art residencies in Argentina, Mexico, and Iceland. When his residencies concluded, he moved back to Venezuela and immediately started teaching at Zulia University as a professor of drawing and expression technique. He also created and taught an applied photography course. When political unrest Juan Diego to leave Venezuela, he moved to Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he worked at the city’s MARCO Contemporary Art Museum as the artist residency coordinator. However, COVID-19 prevented travel to-and-from the country, which disrupted the residency program, and Juan Diego moved to the Twin Cities to be with his family. He currently works for a large Latin cultural nonprofit organization, CLUES (Latin Communities United in Service), where he works with the organization’s artists on key events. 

Experiencing so many different cultures through his residencies led to Juan Diego’s lasting interest in memory, particularly in the relationship between personal and cultural memory. He expressed this early in his career through his *Serie Memoria Privada* (in English, Series of Private Memories), and later in his career through *Los Armas Nos Escudan* (The Weapons that Shield Us). The relationship between personal and cultural memory also affected his approach to art, which is reflecting inside (Juan Diego and his personal spaces, such as his studio) vs outside (the space that Juan Diego interacts with but does not control). Several of Juan Diego’s recent projects, such as *Como Construir Un Monumento* (How to Construct a Monument), revolve around everyday ways that a person can control an outside space.