# Full Artist Biography

Juan Diego Perez la Cruz is a photographer, artist, and educator. He was born in 1986, in Maracaibo, Venezuela – near Columbia. 

When growing up, Juan Diego always had a sketchbook in-hand, which led to his decision to pursue art and architecture as a career. He got his bachelors in architecture at Rafael Urdaneta University in 2008, then worked in furniture design. However, he wanted to gain experience in other areas of art, so he enrolled in a technical program in the Julio Arraga Art School that taught drawing, photography, and experimental painting. Immediately after graduating from the program, he embarked on a series of art residencies in Argentina, Mexico, and Iceland. When his residencies concluded, he moved back to Venezuela and started teaching at Rafael Urdaneta University as a professor of drawing, expression technique. He also created and taught an applied photography course. 
When political unrest forced Juan Diego to leave Venezuela, he moved to Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he worked at the city’s MARCO Contemporary Art Museum as the artist residency coordinator. However, COVID-19 disrupted the residency program, and Juan Diego moved to the Twin Cities to be with his family. 

Juan Diego currently works for CLUES (Latin Communities United in Service), a large Latin American cultural nonprofit organization in Minnesota, where he is developing a program called called Raiz   (in English, roots). Raiz aims to record, preserve, and share Latin art and culture with young Latin American artists by establishing a mentor program that pairs experienced artists in CLUES with aspiring artists. Raiz will also help young and starting artists establish their own careers by assisting their development of professional materials. In addition to Raiz, Juan Diego works with CLUES’ artists on key events and is working to create a portfolio of Latin Artists in the Twin Cities and their work.

Juan Diego  uses his art to capture and discuss themes that are important to him. One aspect of his art is the relationship between personal and cultural memory, which he represented early in his career through Serie Memoria Privada (in English, Series of Private Memories), and later in his career through Las Armas Nos Escudan (The Weapons that Shield Us). Another aspect of Juan Diego’s art is political climates and change in Venezuela, exemplified by Calle Venezuela 1-4500 (Venezuela’s Streets 1-4500). Juan Diego also explores the differences between inside (Juan Diego and his personal spaces, such as his studio) and outside (the space that Juan Diego interacts with but does not control). Several of Juan Diego’s recent projects, such as Como Construir Un Monumento (How to Construct a Monument), revolve around everyday ways that a person can control an outside space. Finally, Juan Diego focuses on the human body – both his own and other people’s. Himno Nacional de Venezuela (Venezuelan National Anthem) depicts Juan Diego as both the artist and subject of his own work as he uses his body to comment on the state of Venezuela.